Story Recapped here.
Today, I’m going to explain a crime, drama,
and fantasy film called, “Border.”
Spoilers ahead!
Watch out and take care.
In the Port of Gothenburg, Sweden, an extraordinary
woman, Tina, who has a seemingly odd interest
in insects, has distinctive Neanderthalic
facial features, brought by a rare case of
chromosomal abnormality, a disorder that makes
her open to unpleasant stares from other people,
especially during her day job.
Despite her condition and appearance, Tina
excels in her work and is respected by her
colleagues.
Due to the abnormal mutation of her chromosomes,
Tina is gifted with super heightened olfactory
senses, comparable to a trained K-9 dog unit
that can detect contrabands about hundreds
of meters away.
One day, during her shift, Tina calls one
of the passengers’ attention.
She confiscates his bag, hands it over to
her colleague, and without even opening it,
she declares that there are four liters of
liquor inside the young man’s bag.
Unimpressed by her demonstration, the young
passenger protests that he has legally bought
the liquor.
Tina calmly tells him about the charges that
he will be dealing with for possessing liquor
at a minor age.
Caught red-handed, the young passenger immediately
takes his leave without an argument.
Past her shift, Tina drives home to her secluded
house in the woods.
She lives with her boyfriend, Roland, a dog
trainer, who often keeps his dogs away from
her because of the inexplicable hostility
of the animals towards her.
Exasperated by the usual scene inside the
house, Tina decides to take a walk around
the woods.
The next morning, Tina goes to work on a seemingly
typical day.
Doing her usual checks, she sniffs on each
person, waiting for some unusual smell that
she can point out to intercept.
One of the passengers, a very unsuspecting
man wearing a decent suit, catches Tina’s
attention.
She calls the man for inspection.
Her colleague makes the initial bag check
but finds nothing suspicious inside it.
Looking apprehensive, Tina suddenly asks for
his cellphone.
The man refuses and asserts that he has no
room for any more delays.
Tina and her colleague insist.
Leaving him without a choice, the man compels
to get checked.
After sniffing closely on his cellphone, Tina
removes the memory card.
Suddenly, the man panics, snatches the memory
card from Tina’s hands and puts it inside
of his mouth in an attempt to swallow it.
Luckily, Tina’s colleague is quick enough
to hold the man’s cheeks, preventing him
from causing any damage to the card.
Then he holds the man down just as the other
security personnel takes the memory card out
of his mouth.
Still in a state of disbelief about the earlier
scene, Tina returns to her post just as the
newly arriving passengers are coming out from
the terminal again.
Suddenly, she smells an alluring scent among
all of the passengers who came out, but none
of them seem to match.
Then from a distance, the last passenger finally
comes out.
A strange man named Vore passes in front of
her, bearing the same facial features the
same as hers.
Tina calls him for inspection.
As Tina checks inside his bag, she finds ordinary
belongings except for a container of litterfalls
and a modified stainless box with a thermometer
and some wires attached to it.
Suspicious of the device, Tina asks for its
purpose just as she opens the box to find
more dried leaves, some maggots, and some
resting pupas.
Vore explains that the device is a larvae
hatcher and he uses it for his job.
Then he tries to make a conversation by asking
her whether she likes insects as well.
Drawn by his scent, Tina is unable to answer.
She avoids the conversation and directs him
to the exits.
Vore is too cunning to miss Tina’s affinity
towards him.
Just before he goes, he mischievously tells
Tina how sure he is that she also likes insects.
Showing his marvel to know that fact, Tina
remains standing speechless while looking
at him leave.
Later, Tina visits her dad at the nursing
home.
She greets him enthusiastically, but her dad,
who is suffering from dementia, doesn’t
recognize her at all.
As Tina approaches closer, he finally recognizes
his own daughter.
She brings him outside in a wheelchair and
arrives at their favorite spot.
Her dad starts the conversation by asking
how things are doing with Roland.
He notices how spiritless Tina is, so he bluntly
asks about their romance in bed.
Tina feels awkward and avoids the question.
Tina’s dad then points out how Roland is
just using her for his own advantage.
She defends this by saying that she needs
Roland to look after her house whenever she’s
gone.
Deep inside, Tina is aware of the reality
of how Roland sees her as a being, but she
tries to turn a blind eye.
As she arrives home, she tries to make a conversation
with Ronald.
He tries to engage, but his attention is evidently
more on the television than with her.
Tired of all the pretense, Tina decides to
take a walk outside instead.
The next day, Tina is invited by Agent Agneta
to talk about her discovery of the memory
card the other day.
Agneta tells her that the card contains illegal
and explicit videos and asks Tina how she
happens to know about the contents of the
card without even seeing the man for the first
time.
Tina explains that she really doesn’t know
what was on the card, but instead, she explains
how she can smell anxiety all over the suspect.
Agneta feels skeptical about her story, but
Tina further explains how she can perceive
things other than the tangible ones through
her sense of smell.
Gifted with phenomenal olfactory senses, Tina
can perceive the intangible such as human
emotions by smelling them — such as guilt,
shame, anger, fear, and even deception.
Now believing in her story, Agent Agneta stops
her interrogation.
Later on, she requests Tina’s help to solve
the underlying case just as she briefs her
on the proceedings.
The following day, Vore, coming from another
trip, returns to the port and passes by Tina’s
post again.
He smiles and greets her and voluntarily surrenders
himself for inspection.
As Tina’s colleague thoroughly checks inside
Vore’s bag, he finds nothing suspicious.
Tina’s colleague declares him clean; however,
Tina insists that he’s got something on
him, so they decide to proceed to the next
course of action which is to strip-search
Vore.
However, after the search, Tina’s colleague
confirms that Vore is clean.
He then expresses his disappointment at Tina
for being compelled to conduct the search
instead of her after finding a very long embarrassing
scar on Vore’s tailbone and subsequently
discovering that Vore has female genitals.
Uncertain of how she should feel, Tina is
caught between feeling sorry and joyful.
Her remorse comes from the fact that they
have violated his civic rights, but at the
same time, her joy comes from the thought
that she can finally unveil the mystery of
her being for the first time with the help
of Vore who happens to be very similar to
her.
Tina then marches towards Vore to apologize.
She tells him that he can file a formal complaint
against her.
Vore shows his kindness by refusing to file
a complaint.
Tina pushes his kindness and asks him about
his personal life.
He generously responds that he travels a lot
and doesn’t stay in one place to study insects.
As they continue to converse, they end up
introducing themselves to one another.
Tina’s curiosity about herself grows even
fonder after talking with Vore.
She then visits her dad to confront him about
her scars.
Her dad tells her that she got her scars when
she was three after falling down from a tree
and landing on a sharp rock.
After hearing her dad’s story, she feels
unsatisfied with his tale.
The following day, Tina goes over to Vore’s
hostel, determined to find some real answers.
Outside his hostel, Tina finds him collecting
maggots on a tree.
He approaches her and invites her to try his
newly collected maggot.
Tina declines in disgust, but Vore insists
as he feeds the maggot on her mouth.
As Tina devours the small maggot, she feels
a little satisfaction.
As she indulges herself with the guilty pleasure,
she becomes more concerned and insecure towards
herself.
In order for her to know more about the truth
of her identity, she invites Vore to stay
at her place.
Arriving at Tina’s place, Vore approaches
the barking dogs and shows an aggressive snarl
like of a prominent wild beast, turning the
dogs submissive.
Tina is astonished by what she has seen, then
she feels confident and secure with Vore’s
presence.
She then introduces Vore to Roland.
Tina informs Roland that he will be occupying
the vacant house next to them.
Since Vore is already at their place, Roland
is unable to object to Tina’s sudden decision.
The next day, Tina accompanies a police agent
to investigate the suspects.
She sees a man walking inside an apartment
and senses the unusual smell of explicitness
and shame on the man.
They follow him inside but are unable to conduct
their search.
Before the occupants close their doors, Tina
and her colleague hear a baby’s cry.
They return to the station to report on their
investigation but end up getting reprimanded
by Agneta for being careless.
Tina asserts that she is 100% sure that the
couple will be violating the infant and insists
on busting their apartment.
The police agent who is with Tina confirms
that he has also heard a baby crying; however,
because of lack of evidence, he explains that
they cannot just barge in without any proof
or documents to support their operation.
Tina concedes and goes home frustrated.
Tina spends her time alone, picking mushrooms
in the woods.
Coincidentally, Vore is also there picking
the same mushrooms.
Tina compliments the surroundings and tells
Vore how everything looks like in the fairy
tales.
Then she starts to share about her childhood
and how she thinks of being special among
the rest of the kids but ends up realizing
to be only a mere human with a chromosome
flaw that makes her different from the rest.
She continues to explain that aside from her
unusual appearance, she is also suffering
from infertility because of disorganized placements
of her reproductive organs.
Vore remarks that she is different because
she is better than the rest of them and tells
her not to listen to what humans say.
On that day, Vore discovers that one of Tina’s
neighbors just recently delivered a child.
He goes to see the neighbors as he makes an
excuse to borrow a saucepan.
Being invited inside, he goes to see the newborn
baby, acting all malicious as he compliments
the child.
Later that night, Vore is feeling restless
inside his cabin.
As the night gradually becomes deeper, the
more he becomes disturbed.
He goes into the woods as he experiences unusual
pain in his gut.
Feeling agitated, he moves deeper into the
woods.
Unable to contain the pain, Vore stops and
removes his pants while his reproductive organ
protrudes between his legs as if giving birth,
as he screams more in pain.
The following morning, Tina and the police
agent are on a stakeout for the suspects.
The agent explains the suspects’ usual routine
and tells Tina that they only have an hour
to break into their apartment to collect evidence.
After they enter, they see nothing out of
the ordinary; however, using her extraordinary
olfactory senses, Tina moves directly towards
a bookshelf and opens a trophy, finding a
camera and discovering footage of a baby being
abused.
Presenting all the evidence in the interrogation
room, the suspects deny the accusation, leaving
Tina to feel strong resentment towards them.
One day, a thunderstorm approaches.
Tina is busy pulling the wires out from the
outlets as she moves around the house in a
panic.
Then she sees Vore standing in front of her
door, looking anxious towards the upcoming
storm.
Just as she opens the door to let Vore in,
the storm suddenly breaks as the two of them
quickly huddle under the table, terrified
with every strike of lightning.
They then move outside after the storm clears,
and Vore suddenly kisses Tina to her surprise.
Tina shows aggression towards Vore like a
wild animal, snarling and sticking her tongue
out.
Vore smiles in gratification for he knows
it is how their kind shows affection towards
their partner when they are ready to mate.
Acting like wild animals as a sign of their
intimacy, they end up arousing themselves
and spend the whole day consummating one another.
After long hours of intimate moments, Vore
tells the confused Tina about her real identity.
He reveals that Tina is a troll just like
he is.
He explains that everything that is happening
to her doesn’t have anything to do about
chromosomal abnormality; but it’s her ability
as a troll to acquire a heightened sense of
smell, just like the animals in the wild,
and the scar on her tailbone used to be her
tail that was removed from her.
As Tina shows admiration towards Vore’s
words, he finally tells her that he is in
search of a specific group of trolls that
maintains a furtive existence in Finland.
He then asks her if she wants to go with him
to Finland to which Tina agrees.
The next morning, excited about her newfound
identity, Tina restarts her life like a troll
in the wild.
Carefree from all the trivial matters in life,
the two of them run within the confines of
the woods.
Tina asks Vore why he didn’t tell her for
so long.
Vore explains how hesitant he was to tell
her from the start, knowing how perfectly
she has adapted to human life.
Nonetheless, Vore reveals the cruelty humans
committed against their kind.
He shares about his parents and how other
troll captives became test subjects for human
research which ultimately killed a lot of
them.
Vore then swears his vengeance against the
humans.
Tina decides to visit her dad again to confront
him about the truth.
Arriving at the nursing home, Tina wakes her
dad and starts to ask about her real identity.
Her dad adheres to his fabricated stories.
She starts to get angry and her dad gets terrified
and immediately shouts to call the nurse’s
attention.
Just as the nurse arrives, Tina is directed
to leave.
Tina arrives home feeling upset.
She casts Roland out as she throws his things
outside the house.
Petrified of what Tina has become, Roland
leaves in the morning, bringing only his dogs
with him.
After seeing Roland leave, she goes to see
Vore at his cabin.
She notices that no one is around, so she
enters of her own volition.
Inside, she hears an indistinct sound of a
baby that is coming from the refrigerator.
She opens the fridge and sees a box.
As she takes the box out, the baby’s cry
becomes more conspicuous.
She then opens it and finds a deformed infant.
To her surprise, she immediately returns the
baby back inside the fridge, keeping the discovery
to herself.
Meanwhile, one of the suspects is being transported
to a new location.
Along the way, they suddenly stop for a wild
moose who is standing on the road.
As they wait for the moose to make its way,
Vore suddenly appears from behind, pulls the
suspect out from the van, and knocks him down
dead on the ground.
The emergency response team, together with
Tina, arrives and secures the crime scene.
As Tina checks on the crime scene, she suddenly
feels restless.
Agneta notices her anxiety and asks if she’s
found something.
Tina denies her lead and continues to walk
further into the woods.
Deep in the woods, she finds Vore.
He then admits that he is with the suspect
and tells Tina that he needed to do it in
order to stop the suspect from talking.
As Tina reacts violently, Vore tries to hold
her tight as he explains that he is only doing
it to inflict pain on humans.
Tina confronts him about her discovery of
a baby that he kept inside the fridge.
Vore smiles and explains that it is neither
a baby nor a human; but a “Hiisit” or
a ‘changeling’, a human-like creature
used as a substitute when trolls abduct human
babies.
He further explains that he occasionally gives
birth to a changeling and confesses that he
uses it in exchange for every human baby he
abducts.
Just as humans take away from them, he takes
in return from humans.
Tina then asks about the human babies that
he took.
He deliberately replies that he sells them.
Disgusted by Vore’s revelations, Tina displays
her dominance and resentment towards him.
As Vore is about to show his submission, Tina
suddenly turns his back and walks out, leaving
Vore behind.
The next day, Tina catches sight of an ambulance
parking in front of her neighbor’s house.
She quickly goes inside to check on her neighbor’s
situation.
Later, she discovers that Vore replaced their
baby with a changeling.
She immediately rushes to Vore’s cabin and
finds out that Vore has already left.
As Tina looks for some scent to track him,
she finds a note instead that says to meet
him on the ferry.
Later that night, Tina goes to the ferry to
meet up with Vore.
Vore is surprisingly happy to see her.
As he notices Tina’s despair on her face,
the police are already surrounding him, ready
to take him in.
Vore bids his last farewell to Tina just as
the police restrains and arrests him.
As the police move him in, Vore suddenly struggles
and jumps overboard, disappearing into the
water.
Back at her house, Tina’s dad visits her.
He confesses how her parents were once a part
of an experiment.
And he, as a caretaker of the science facility,
was asked by her troll parents to take care
of her young self before the scientists discover
her existence.
Because of his wife’s desire to have a child
of their own, they wholeheartedly took Tina
in as their daughter.
Sensing her dad’s sincerity, Tina asks how
her original parents named her.
Her dad replies “Reva.”
Months later, Tina, now known as Reva, continues
her life as a troll in the forest.
Then one day, she goes back to her abandoned
house where she sees a large box wrapped in
paper that was left in the front door.
She drags the box inside and opens it.
Inside the box is a troll infant.
She goes to the box to find some scent prints
that she can identify but instead finds a
musical postcard of Finland.
Looking at the postcard, she knows that it
is both Vore’s and her child.
As she takes her baby outside, she shows a
determined face to raise her child as her
own.
She feeds him with an insect crawling out
from decomposing lumber.
Caught between the 'Border' between being
a human and a troll, Tina chooses a life of
a troll in the end as she raises her child
in the wilderness — free from the harm of
the discriminating humans.